# Credit Risk Classification

credit-risk-classification is an exercise to practice supervised machine learning model techniques and implementation. 

## Overview of the Analysis
To practice these skills two logistic regression models were constructed to predict credit loan risk based on historic loan data. lending_data.csv contains information on loan size and status, interest rate, income, amount of debt, number of accounts, and marks against account. These models can be used to predict whether a loan to the borrower would be a `high risk` loan or a `healthy risk` loan.

The logistic regression model with original data and the model with resampled data can be found in credit_risk_classification.ipynb.
Data can be found in the Resources folder.

## Results

Using bulleted lists, describe the balanced accuracy scores and the precision and recall scores of all machine learning models.

* Logistic Regression with `Original Data`: 
  * Accuracy: 94.4%
  * Precision:
    * Healthy: 100%
    * High Risk: 87%
  * Recall:
    * Healthy: 100%
    * High Risk: 89%

* Logistic Regression with `Resampled Data`: 
  * Accuracy: 99.4
  * Precision:
    * Healthy: 99%
    * High Risk: 99%
  * Recall:
    * Healthy: 99%
    * High Risk: 99%

## Summary

Both models preformed well for predicting healthy loans with the original data model having a precision of 100% and the resampled data model having a precision of 99%. If healthy loans were the only variable needed for an assessment the original data model may preform better. If you need to predict both healthy loans and high risk loans the resampled data model would be the better option as it not only has a 99% precision for both loan types, but an overall better balanced accuracy score of 99.4%.

---
Script was made for UCB Data Analytics Challenge 20

Author - Jacob Pohs

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC